>> Erik Reinert: So now what we want to
do is we actually want to start laying
the foundation work for
our infrastructure and our automation, and
we're going to focus this entirely.
And what I think you should do when
you're building Terraform is entirely on
the problems that you're trying to solve,
right?
So don't think about like,
I need a bucket.
And then don't think of it too
technically, think of it in the plainest
terms that you can like,
I want this module to solve this problem.
And the first problem that we kind of want
to solve is not networking or databases or
anything like that, even though those
are problems that we want to solve.
The first problem we really want to solve
is figuring out how to describe our
environments, right?
And the reason for
that is because I want to create,
I want to just go into Terraform,
copy an environment module, paste it,
change the name of that environment,
and now I get everything.
I get ecs, I get cdn, I get load balancer,
I get everything, right?
So that's the composability that I want.
So before I start thinking about VPs or
VPCs and all of this other stuff,
I want to kind of think of how they're
going to be organized together so
that I don't have to copy
tons of things individually.
I can have like a huge module
that's my entire environment,
and then I can just be like,
okay, device, staging, prod.
And then everything gets created
underneath that to do that.
And again, this will make a little
bit more sense once we get into it
a little bit more.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to
create a directory inside of Terraform
called Module.
Then inside of Module, I'm going to
create a directory called environment.
What we are going to do is we
are going to separate all of
our main problems that we
are trying to solve into modules.
The first module that we are going
to create is what's called
an environment module.
Now this doesn't mean that this module
will be directly doing one thing.
It means that it's really just about
grouping all of the other problems that
we're trying to solve together,
like networking,
like again, database, whatever else.
So inside of this directory
I'm going to go into it.
So I'm going to go into module,
environment, and
inside of this directory I'm
going to create some new files.
So the first thing I'm going to do is
I'm going to create a main TF file.
Main TF file is kind of
just like an arbitrary or
standard way of making like an entry
point to all of your automation.
You don't have to call it main TF to be
clear, as long as any Terraform files
exist in the directory,
then Terraform will see them, but
you'll more than likely see like a main TF
or like all of the main stuff exists and
then other files that
are relative to that main tf.
However, we're not going to add
anything to this main TF yet
because we have no other resources, right?
So this is technically
like an empty environment.
But there are a couple of other things we
know that this environment needs in order
to work.
So one of the first things we're going
to do is we're going to create a data
TF file, and in that file I'm
going to put in two data lookups.
Terraform doesn't just create resources,
it also allows you to look up resources
in the provider that you're using.
So for example,
if something already exists in aws,
you don't necessarily have to
create it if you don't want to.
And I actually do this a lot in
my enterprise course that I did.
I talk a lot about separation of concerns
where you would have a network terraform
repo, and then you would have
a database terraform repo, and
then you'd have all these other repos that
are completely separate, they don't share
the same code bases, but they all work
together and build on top of each other.
The reason for that and
why we do that is because it allows us
to separate the life cycle of changes.
I can update databases
entirely on their own.
I don't have to worry
about touching network or
running anything related to network, or
even planning against network, because
that's its own completely separate module
and its own completely separate repo.
And so what we do is we say, okay,
we run the network repo first,
then we run the database repo,
then we run the ECS repo, and
you keep blocking these repos together
to where they become this stack that
everything's running on,
but each repo is separated.
So if I just want to change
one unit in that stack and
it's provisioned like 50 databases,
then I can just change the databases and
I don't have to worry about
impacting anything else.
And so that's where data
lookups can be really nice.
Because then you can say like, okay,
in the database automation we
expect the network to exist.
Cool.
Well, if the network exists,
then I can do a data lookup to find the
VPC id and now I can create Databases in
that vpc even though they're
not in the same repo per se.
So data lookups are really nice for that.
We're not going to be doing that.
We are just going to be creating
a mono repo of Terraform today.
That's just because it's easy.
I've had many arguments about
which approach is better.
I would say the easiest approach is
the one that fits your team the best.
Because if you have tons of repos,
that is a lot more work.
You have to go around to a lot more
places, click a lot more buttons and
it can be annoying versus just like
having everything in one place.
Cool.
Okay, so we've got data.
The next thing we want to
create is a variables TF file.
So again you can see here I have
a data file, I have a main file and
I have a variables file.
I'm going to edit this file and
I'm going to paste in two variables.
So remember,
at the root of our module we created
a locals file with a bastion ingress.
However, now in the environment
module we're making it so
that the bastion ingress is a variable.
Why are we doing that?
Why am I not just hard coding
the value into the environment?
>> Speaker 2: Because you're gonna
have an amount of bastion hosts for
n environments.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, yep, and what I
wanna do with that is I wanna make it so
that if it's dev,
only these people can have access to it.
And if it's prod, then only these
people can have access to it.
So even though an environment is
really a collection of other modules,
I can still give it parameters
that are environment specific.
So if I wanted to,
if I wanted to say like, okay,
I only want these people to be
able to access the dev bastion so
devs can go in and connect to nodes
if they need to develop stuff.
But in production, I don't want
anybody to be able to do that, or
I want specific people
to be able to do that.
If it's a variable and it's set at
the environment level in that environment
module, then it's just a little
value I have to tweak.
Then it's really easy to manage.
This is why the environment module exists,
is to have a high level set of
configuration that then bleeds down
into all of your other components.
So that if you want to tweak just
one thing for that environment,
you can easily do that again.
Legos, if you like Legos, you're
definitely going to enjoy Terraform,
that's for sure.
The name is also very explanatory,
right, dev staging, prod.
If you wanna have a random name,
like, I don't know,
maybe you need a demo environment, right?
Other things like that,
the composability here.
Think about it if somebody
came up to you and said, hey,
I need an entirely new environment of our
deployment or of our infrastructure today,
how easy would it be at
your jobs to do that?
>> Speaker 3: Use Terraform,
so pretty easy.
>> Erik Reinert: Okay, yes, there you go.
Yeah, if you're using Terraform,
it is, it is pretty easy.
But if you're not, it's just like,
my gosh, so, yeah, when you're here and
you're doing it, again, going back to
think about phase one and phase two,
you're not thinking in this world of like,
okay, well, now I can have a little bit
of more nice things and have a little bit
more customization and stuff like that.
This is that kind of future proofing of
like, well, we don't know what the name of
the environment might be, so let's make
it anything so that we can have anything.
Okay, cool.
>> Speaker 3: And
I have gotten that type of request before.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: From like a C suite.
>> Erik Reinert: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Hey, we need to-
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Show something to
a client or a customer or whatever.
Can you make us a separate environment?
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, it's very common.
That's why it's good to have
composability around your environments,
because you will get it.
I get.
I've gotten it before too.
And again, thankfully we used Terraform,
but, you know,
ours is still a little bit more daunting.
But yeah, I mean, yeah, it's gonna happen,
[LAUGH] it's gonna happen.
So being prepared for it is very powerful.
Especially when you could say,
yeah, and they're like, okay, cool.
You know,
>> Speaker 3: well, even like, you know,
you'll.
Let's say you have dev, Stage and prod.
Right.
But
maybe the company is trying to figure
out a way to save money or something.
It's like, if you guys really
don't need a stage environment.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Let's get rid of all
of our stage environments on the apps and
services that we don't need.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: Stage environments.
It's so much easier just to destroy
those stage environments with Terraform
than doing it manually.
So.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep.
And you can decide if you want to as well,
making them more ephemeral.
You know, maybe have environments per PR
versus like, environments all the time.
Right.
You have that composability now because
it's all in that definition it's very,
very powerful.
The next thing we want to do is we
actually want to go back to our root
module.
Because at this point we've
defined our environment module,
we set up variables,
we know we want some data, but
we don't have any resources or
other modules to put in it yet.
But if I did, right now, if I just
did Terraform Plan, just for fun,
it really wouldn't do anything because
I haven't added any resources or
anything like that.
But it also means that it
doesn't know my modules there.
That's because I haven't used
it in my root level yet.
Now what I want to do is I want to
create a main TF file at the root of
the project at the root where back end
locals and all that other stuff is.
Then in here.
I'm actually going to set
up our staging environment.
What I'm going to do is I'm
going to say in my main TF file,
I'm going to define a module,
I'm going to call it Staging.
I'm gonna tell it that the source of
this module is my environment, right?
I'm going to pass it the variables
bastion, ingress and
name, and that's all I need
to create an environment.
That's it.
Let me just reopen it with color.
There you go.
So this is all like this,
and I wanna be clear.
Another big benefit of using Terraform
is to solve hard problems
with easy solutions, right?
If I can as a developer, just come
in here and go, okay, Prod demo dev.
Think about that.
Think about underneath the hood.
We're talking about five
different ECS clusters,
five different CDN distributions,
five different.
All of that stuff out of the box for
free, right?
This is the power of IAC, when you
organize it well and you focus on what
problem you're trying to solve,
not just like, I want an S3 bucket, yeah.
>> Speaker 4: IAC.
>> Erik Reinert: Infrastructure is code,
yeah, sorry if you've never heard of
the term before,
IAC equals infrastructure as code, yeah.
Cool.
Okay, so now if I do a Terraform plan,
I should get an error.
Yeah, there you go.
So whenever you add a module to Terraform,
Terraform has to first
initialize that module.
I don't know why, but what's ironic
is that if I do Terraform init,
you'll see that it initializes
my staging module.
But what you actually end up
with is effectively a reference
to the directory in
the Terraform configuration.
You'll see here that Terraform
underneath the hood adds my module with
the key the path to it and then
the directory effectively that it's in.
So this is something that's required
every time you create it or add a module.
This is not required for resources.
So you don't have to do Terraform in
it every time you add a resource.
But if you add a module with
this specific module key,
you have to do Terraform Init
otherwise it'll just fail.
It'll say hey, you haven't initialized
first, please, please initialize.
So whenever you're using modules, just
remember to do Terraform init before plan,
otherwise it will error out and
be be mad at you.
Cool.
Okay.
And again, I can do plan one more
time now that I've done init and
we should get no resources.
But you will see that now we're actually
starting to see some of that data,
those data lookups.
So you can see here it first went out and
got the region that I'm using and
they've got the caller identity as well.
So that basically I can know in my
automation what region we're provisioning
in and then like what's my account ID and
all that kinda stuff, right?
So that just helps with everything
else that we are about to write.